doc: doc updates for release 2.8.0-preview1 (#18060)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/releases_and_maturity/releases/release-notes-changelog.rst

Bluetooth® LE
-------------

> * Added the APIs :c:func:`bt_hci_err_to_str` and :c:func:`bt_security_err_to_str` to allow printing error codes as strings.

Reviewer: functions instead of APIs?

  Each API returns string representations of the error codes when the corresponding Kconfig option, :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_HCI_ERR_TO_STR` or :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_SECURITY_ERR_TO_STR`, is enabled.

>   The :ref:`ble_samples` and :ref:`nrf53_audio_app` are updated to utilize these new APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The :ref:`ble_samples` and :ref:`nrf53_audio_app` are updated to use these new APIs.
```

* Updated:

>   * The SoftDevice Controller library to automaticallly select the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_LL_SOFTDEVICE_MULTIROLE` Kconfig option when using coexistence based on :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_CX` for nRF52 Series devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * The SoftDevice Controller library to automatically select the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_LL_SOFTDEVICE_MULTIROLE` Kconfig option when using coexistence based on :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_CX` for nRF52 Series devices.
```

>   * The SoftDevice Controller library to automaticallly select the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_LL_SOFTDEVICE_MULTIROLE` Kconfig option when using coexistence based on :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_CX` for nRF52 Series devices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * The SoftDevice Controller library to automatically select the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_LL_SOFTDEVICE_MULTIROLE` Kconfig option when using coexistence based on :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_CX` for nRF52 Series devices.
```

  * The Bluetooth HCI driver is now present as a devicetree node in the device tree.
    The SoftDevice Controller driver uses a devicetree node named ``bt_hci_sdc`` with a devicetree binding compatible with ``nordic,bt-hci-sdc``.
    The Zephyr Bluetooth LE Controller uses a devicetree node named ``bt_hci_controller`` with a devicetree binding compatible with ``zephyr,bt-hci-ll-sw-split``.

>     Applications using the Zephyr Bluetooth Controller need to be updated (see the :ref:`migration guide <migration_2.8>`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You need to update applications using the Zephyr Bluetooth Controller (see the :ref:`migration guide <migration_2.8>`).
```

* Fixed an issue where the Bluetooth subsystem deadlocked when a Bluetooth link was lost during data transfer.
  In this scenario, the disconnected event was never delivered to the application.
  The issue only occurred when the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_HCI_ACL_FLOW_CONTROL` Kconfig option was enabled.
  This option is enabled by default on the nRF5340 DK.

Bluetooth Mesh
--------------

* Added metadata as optional parameter for models Light Lightness Server, Light HSL Server, Light CTL Temperature Server, Sensor Server, and Time Server.
  To use the metadata, enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_LARGE_COMP_DATA_SRV` Kconfig option.

* Removed the ``BT_MESH_SENSOR_USE_LEGACY_SENSOR_VALUE`` Kconfig option, deprecated in the |NCS| v2.6.0, as the old APIs, based on the :c:struct:`sensor_value` type, are removed.

>   Applications using the old APIs must be updated, as described in the :ref:`v2.6.0 migration guide <nrf5340_audio_migration_notes>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You need to update applications using the old APIs, as described in the :ref:`v2.6.0 migration guide <nrf5340_audio_migration_notes>`.
```

  * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MATTER_ZAP_FILES_PATH` Kconfig option, which specifies ZAP files location for the application.
    By default, the option points to the :file:`src/default_zap` directory and can be changed to any path relative to application's location that contains the ZAP file and :file:`zap-generated` directory.
  * Experimental support for the :ref:`zephyr:nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20` board.
  * Optional smart plug device functionality.
  * Experimental support for the Thread protocol.
  * The :ref:`multiprotocol_bt_thread` page.

nRF5340 Audio
-------------

> * Added the APIs :c:func:`bt_hci_err_to_str` and :c:func:`bt_security_err_to_str` that are used to allow printing error codes as strings.

Reviewer: functions instead of APIs?

  * Handler for new nRF Cloud event type ``NRF_CLOUD_EVT_RX_DATA_DISCON``.
  * Support for socket option ``AT_SO_IPV6_DELAYED_ADDR_REFRESH``.

* Updated:

  * AT string parsing to utilize the :ref:`at_parser_readme` library instead of the :ref:`at_cmd_parser_readme` library.
  * The ``#XUDPCLI`` and ``#XSSOCKET`` (UDP client sockets) AT commands to use Zephyr's Mbed TLS with DTLS when the :file:`overlay-native_tls.conf` configuration file is used.

* Removed:

  * Support for the :file:`overlay-native_tls.conf` configuration file with the ``thingy91/nrf9160/ns`` board target.
  * Support for deprecated RAI socket options ``AT_SO_RAI_LAST``, ``AT_SO_RAI_NO_DATA``, ``AT_SO_RAI_ONE_RESP``, ``AT_SO_RAI_ONGOING``, and ``AT_SO_RAI_WAIT_MORE``.

Thingy:53: Matter weather station
---------------------------------

> * Added the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MATTER_ZAP_FILES_PATH` Kconfig option, which specifies ZAP files location for the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MATTER_ZAP_FILES_PATH` Kconfig option that specifies ZAP files location for the application.
```

  * Support for :ref:`Trusted Firmware-M <ug_tfm>` on the nRF54L15 SoC.
  * The :ref:`matter_smoke_co_alarm_sample` sample that demonstrates implementation of Matter Smoke CO alarm device type.

* Updated all samples to enable the :ref:`ug_thread_build_report` generation.

* :ref:`matter_lock_sample` sample:

>   * Added :ref:`Matter Lock schedule snippet <matter_lock_snippets>`, and updated the documentation to use the snippet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Added :ref:`Matter Lock schedule snippet <matter_lock_snippets>` and updated the documentation to use the snippet.
```

      It also unpairs the Fast Pair Bluetooth bonds on Fast Pair factory reset.
      The option is enabled by default for Fast Pair use cases that are selected using :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_USE_CASE_INPUT_DEVICE` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_USE_CASE_MOUSE` Kconfig options.

  * Updated the default values of the following Fast Pair Kconfig options:

    * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_SUBSEQUENT_PAIRING`
    * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_REQ_PAIRING`
    * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_PN`
    * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_GATT_SERVICE_MODEL_ID`

    These Kconfig options are now disabled by default and are selected only by the Fast Pair use cases that require them.

  * Removed:

>     * The MbedTLS cryptographic backend support in Fast Pair, because it is superseded by the PSA backend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * The Mbed TLS cryptographic backend support in Fast Pair, because it is superseded by the PSA backend.
```

    These Kconfig options are now disabled by default and are selected only by the Fast Pair use cases that require them.

  * Removed:

    * The Mbed TLS cryptographic backend support in Fast Pair, because it is superseded by the PSA backend.
      Consequently, the ``CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_CRYPTO_MBEDTLS`` Kconfig option has also been removed.
    * The default overrides for the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_DIS` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_DIS_FW_REV` Kconfig options that enable these options together with the Google Fast Pair Service.
      This configuration is now selected only by the Fast Pair use cases that require the Device Information Service (DIS).
    * The default override for the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_DIS_FW_REV_STR` Kconfig option that was set to :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUBOOT_IMGTOOL_SIGN_VERSION` if :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT` was enabled.

>       The default override is now handled in the Kconfig of the Zephyr Device Information Service (DIS) module and is based on Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:app-version-details` that uses the :file:`VERSION` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      The default override is now handled in the Kconfig of the Zephyr Device Information Service (DIS) module and is based on Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:app-version-details` that uses the :file:``VERSION`` file.
```

  * Deprecated the :c:macro:`LTE_LC_ON_CFUN` macro.
    Use the :c:macro:`NRF_MODEM_LIB_ON_CFUN` macro instead.

  * Added a new :c:enumerator:`LTE_LC_EVT_RAI_UPDATE` event that is enabled with the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LTE_RAI_REQ` Kconfig option.

  * Updated:

    * To use the :ref:`at_parser_readme` library instead of the :ref:`at_cmd_parser_readme` library.
    * The :c:func:`lte_lc_neighbor_cell_measurement` function to return an error for invalid GCI count.
    * The :c:func:`lte_lc_factory_reset` function has been deprecated.
      Use the ``AT%XFACTORYRESET`` AT command instead.
      Refer to the :ref:`migration guide <migration_2.8>` for more details.
    * The :c:enum:`lte_lc_factory_reset_type` type has been deprecated.
    * The :c:func:`lte_lc_reduced_mobility_get` and :c:func:`lte_lc_reduced_mobility_set` functions have been deprecated.
      Refer to the :ref:`migration guide <migration_2.8>` for more details.
    * The :c:enum:`lte_lc_reduced_mobility_mode` type has been deprecated.
      Refer to the :ref:`migration guide <migration_2.8>` for more details.

> 

Reviewer 2: Line: 885 :ref:`lib_zzhc` library expands to China Telecom ZZHC library library. So 'library' can be removed.

Multiprotocol Service Layer libraries
-------------------------------------

> * Added a 1-wire coexistence implementation which can be enabled using the Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_CX_1WIRE`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added a 1-wire coexistence implementation that you can enable using the Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_CX_1WIRE`.
```

      Support for statically configured nRF Cloud IP Addresses will soon be removed.
      Leave :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_STATIC_IPV4` disabled to instead use automatic DNS lookup.

* :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_coap` library:

  * Added:

    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_COAP_DISCONNECT_ON_FAILED_REQUEST` Kconfig option to disconnect the CoAP client on a failed request.
    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_COAP_JWT_SEC_TAG` Kconfig option to allow for a separate sec tag to be used for nRF Cloud CoAP JWT signing.

  * Updated:

    * To use a shorter resource string for the ``d2c/bulk`` resource.
    * The function :c:func:`nrf_cloud_coap_shadow_get` to return ``-E2BIG`` if the received shadow data was truncated because the provided buffer was not big enough.
    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_COAP_DOWNLOADS` Kconfig option to be enabled by default if either the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_FOTA_POLL` or :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PGPS` Kconfig option is enabled.

  * Fixed:

    * A hard fault that occurred when encoding AGNSS request data and the ``net_info`` field of the :c:struct:`nrf_cloud_rest_agnss_request` structure is NULL.

>     * An issue where certain CoAP functions could return zero, indidicating success, even though there was an error.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * An issue where certain CoAP functions could return zero, indicating success, even though there was an error.
```

  * The :ref:`ug_app_dev` section, which includes pages from the :ref:`configuration_and_build` section and from the removed Device configuration guides section.
  * The :ref:`dfu_tools_mcumgr_cli` page after it was removed from the Zephyr repository.
  * The :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_soc_binaries` page.

>   * The :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_push` page documentating the SUIT push model-based update process.

Reviewer 2: Line 1170: Typo Integation
Line 1071 Typo asynchrounously

  * The :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_recovery` page.
  * The :ref:`nrf_rpc_uart` page.

>   * The :ref:`ug_bt_stack_arch` and the `ug_bt_solution` documentation to the :ref:`Bluetooth protocols <ug_bt>` page.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * The :ref:`ug_bt_stack_arch` and the :ref:`ug_bt_solution` documentation to the :ref:`Bluetooth protocols <ug_bt>` page.
```
